---
layout: page
title: General Meta Tips
permalink: /meta-tips/
---

A compilation of the main things I'd recommend for the meta process/recovery so they're all in one place, rather than scattered throughout each individual post... with the caveats that everyone's body is different and there are many different surgery options (e.g. I had v-nectomy, which may not apply to you!), so you should listen to your body + your surgeon!

#### Supplies

- Invest in at least one but preferably two or three big packs of gauze (i.e. one pack = 200 squares). You may not need that much, but I personally found it worth the extra $10 or so to have an extra big pack on hand and not feel any stress about running out/using too much. This enabled me to change my gauze frequently, which helped a lot in both things staying clean and dry (good for healing, especially since I had wound separation) but also just to feel better (feeling clean mentally felt better and also feeling like the area was well-padded and well-supported was a lot more comfortable). I was typically using around five squares each time I did a dressing change - 2-3 to cover all the areas, and then another couple to add padding/support under & around that - and at the peak of wound separation was changing 3-5 times per day.
- Have a few bendy straws on hand. It wasn't something I thought about / wasn't nearly as obvious as with top surgery, but they're very useful for easily staying hydrated while being able to remain in a lying down or slightly propped up position without accidentally dumping water all over yourself.
- A lot of people recommend having some sort of "pee pad" for underneath you at least the first week or so. I bought a two-pack of washable dog pads (the fabric type to protect a car seat area or couch), and kept one on my bed and one on the couch. I think I maybe got a couple drops of reddish drainage on the couch one on the very first day, but otherwise didn't really end up needing them - but it was nice to know they were there and not have to worry about it - I would imagine that's especially the case if you're staying in an Airbnb or some other place that's not your own home. Some other people have also mentioned them saving the day during a catheter malfunction, so all-in-all I personally think it's worth having at least one, but it's more likely for your own peace of mind than actually needed to catch much.
- GET A PERI BOTTLE! It's so worth it. For cleaning all around my incisions, I would fill it with warm soapy water, get into the shower with the water off and gently spray and clean everything with the bottle, rinse and refill the bottle with warm water, rinse everything down there off, and then turn the water on and do the rest of my usual shower things. It was nice having the bottle to get everywhere around there while still remaining gentle (I have a bidet with a hose that can reach to the shower, but I didn't use it because the pressure was too hard). It was also nice to be able to use the bottle as a water source in the shower without the shower head being on because it meant I could prop up my hand mirror to see everything while cleaning without needing the shower curtain (which would block the mirror) or the mirror getting wet and making it hard to see (also, the steam from the shower would quickly have fogged the mirror, which would also make it hard to see anything down there!).
- This one is definitely personal preference, but I used my modular wedge pillow practically 24/7 for the first few weeks. It allowed me to be propped up a bit but still relatively horizontal, and it didn't require futzing a bunch like I usually would have to do with pillows to get the same positioning. Also, I find it much easier to have good support from a wedge than from multiple pillows, and it being modular meant I could adjust the angle of support depending on whether I was planning to eat, nap, play video games, etc. [Here](https://www.amazon.com/Healthex-Bed-Wedge-Pillow-Adjustable/dp/B08KHSYBXM/ref=sr_1_21)'s a link to the type I mean (this isn't an affiliate link or anything, I just want to show the specific type I mean).

#### Catheter

- Go slowly when emptying the bag. The first time we did it, my partner just let it rip, and the sudden change in pressure internally made me really lightheaded, and I had to lean against the bathroom counter for support. After that, we emptied it a lot more slowly, and it was totally fine.
- Try to switch to the flip flow valve from the bag as soon as you can. Your experience might be different, but for me, the valve made a HUGE difference - it made my bladder way happier (could hold urine and keep the balloon inside more cushioned from the bladder walls) AND made me a lot more mobile and independent, which helped emotionally.
- Experiment with tube securement. My surgeon's clinical staff recommended just tucking the flip flow valve tubing into my underwear, which works fine, but I found it a lot more comfortable to secure it using the stat lock they'd placed on my thigh so the tube was pinned down and couldn't get jostled at all when I moved around. Similarly, it's nice to find a good way for the tubing to sit in your underwear so its movement is minimized, which can also make a big difference for bladder comfort.
- Personally I preferred peeing into a cup and then just dumping the pee afterward because it felt cleaner to me than leaning over the toilet from up high with the tube, which made it splatter a lot. I imagine this will generally need to be an adjustment I make with time assuming I start peeing through my penis successfully, but I just didn't want to deal with having to bend over to lift the seat or to wipe drops off the seat afterward that early on in my incisions' healing.
- The flip flow valve is SLOW, and for me, the pressure of needing to pee with the catheter in was much greater standing than lying down, so don't wait until the last second to get up to pee. I waited too long a few times, and it was really not comfortable getting up from the couch and having my bladder pressure increase a lot from the change in position, making the need to urinate feel way more urgent. In those cases, I'd race to the bathroom (as fast as I could safely walk), but with the valve, it still takes a good 30 seconds or more to feel relief since it lets urine out so slowly, and while waiting for it to slowly empty, I was anxious about "peeing my pants" through my penis, the urethra of which I wasn't supposed to be using at all yet.
- I don't know if this is officially recommended, but I got to know approximately what my bladder capacity was, and then intentionally would leave a tiny bit of pee left in there when emptying through the valve. This helped a lot because I never really had bladder spasms except when I would empty all the way and the balloon would hit the wall of my bladder, so leaving that little bit in there helped prevent that. IDK if this trains your bladder weirdly or anything (obligatory "I'm not a doctor!"), but it seemed fine for me and made me a lot more comfortable. **UPDATE**: I got a UTI on day 14, and I feel a little suspicious that this possibly could have contributed, so I don't know if I would actually recommend this anymore!

#### Wound Care

- Secure the gauze around your catheter entrance. Without it taped down, it was constantly moving on me, which irritated the opening there more and was also just messier since sometimes it wouldn't catch the oozing/drainage like it was supposed to. I found it best to tape it to myself at the top so it wouldn't migrate, and also tape over the cut made to let the tube through so it wouldn't let the tube escape.
- Wash and re-use the mesh underwear. It's nice to get good airflow to your wounds, especially if you're still having drainage and/or any wound separation, and depending on what your normal underwear is made of, it likely doesn't breathe nearly as well as mesh does, even if it's a breathable fabric. The mesh underwear from the surgery center was great, but I only had a few pairs. My partner helped do laundry for me, and I tossed them in with each load and kept using them (they did shrink, but they're easy enough to stretch back out with your hands). Eventually, I ended up buying some more pairs on Amazon because with my wound separation, I liked to keep wearing it (it felt more gentle and also breathed well), and it was easier not having to do laundry so often. If you want more, you can find it online too.

#### Positioning

- I was honestly just too afraid to sit for the first two weeks. Your experience may vary, and I know a lot of people swear by donut pillows or would sit in recliners or with one leg folded underneath them, but I was just too nervous to pull at my incisions at all, and it didn't feel worth the risk to me, especially having wound separation all along my perineum. However, you may want to get a donut pillow, airplane neck pillow (preferably with beads rather than foam), or other butt pillow to help keep the tension off. Even if you don't sit early on like me, these still can come in useful weeks later even if the incisions are healed, because it can remain a bit uncomfortable to otherwise sit in hard chairs or e.g. for the flight back if you've travelled for surgery.
- Back-sleeping does not come naturally to me. Luckily I had some practice from my top surgery days, so I knew what pillow configurations helped. I would recommend spending some time BEFORE surgery practicing back sleeping a little bit, trying different pillow setups, etc. to see what works best for you, because you don't want to be testing all of those different re-positionings right after surgery (all of the extra movement, yanking pillows this way and that, etc. is not desirable when your incisions are so fresh). If you like to sleep totally flat like I sometimes do, I found a rolled up sweatshirt, positioned so it was tucked in on either side of my head, helped me feel like my head wouldn't lean too far to either side.
- When I would sleep totally flat (i.e. not on the wedge pillow), I found it really helpful to have good support under my legs - this prevented the catheter from getting positioned in a way where it irritated my bladder. I used two pillows - one under my lower thighs + knees and one under my calves and feet - so all of my legs were elevated.
- When riding in the car (the trip back from surgery, to and from post-op appointments, etc), I found sitting on a regular bed pillow with the seat almost fully reclined was super comfortable. Again, you might need to try different pillows to find what suits you, but in general I would definitely say reclining the seat is necessary/useful. For your rides, try to get them to pull somewhere where the passenger door is not exposed to traffic, because you'll want to take your time getting in and out (similar to sitting on the toilet, you don't want to just plop down quickly), and traffic whizzing by the car door or waiting for you to get in/out to pass just adds stress to the situation unnecessarily.

#### Bowel Movements

- STAY ON TOP OF YOUR STOOL SOFTENERS AND LAXATIVE. Don't get cocky and think you'll be the exception. You do not want to add the stress of trying to pass a super hard stool to the already-stressful situation of trying to poop for the first couple of times post-op. That said, don't stress too hard about the actual pooping - it feels ridiculously stressful because the v-nectomy suture line is right up there next to your anus, but realistically your entire perineum is not actually pulling that much while pooping, and it will be fine. Many of us have pooped right after meta before you, and I promise it will be okay. My only main tips there are to sit down onto the toilet as slowly as possible and to do whatever you can to just relax the whole area and let your bowels do the work - the goal is to not be straining.
- Use wet wipes (the kind meant for your butt). It helps you get cleaner, and they're less harsh than toilet paper if you accidentally brush up against the perineum incision where it's close to the anus. (They say they're flushable, but I know they're not great for most waste processing setups today, so I just throw them in the trash). Alternatively, you could use a bidet, but I was too nervous to do so because the water pressure on mine is strong, and I also just didn't want to get that area wetter than necessary since I was otherwise trying to keep it really dry.

#### Pee (Voiding) Trial

- If you're having trouble with a lot of residual urine in your bladder after peeing, try experimenting with going with different levels of urgency/different amounts of urine in your bladder. I found it much easier to empty almost entirely when I had less urine in my bladder (i.e. I wasn't desperate to go and nearly doing a pee dance) - I think this is probably because my bladder was a bit weak from the catheter and had trouble sustaining such a long/large push to get a really-full-bladder's worth of urine out early on. You can also try resting your bladder for a minute or two and then trying to pee more right away. This helped me early on also.
- Don't push, just relax! Especially for the first time. And do it in the shower for easy clean-up :)
