---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 14-17 - accidental peeing + my first ever UTI"
---

## Day 14

The night before, I had been trying to relax all the muscles in my pelvic region more, because I realized I had been kind of clenching them all the time, and it seemed like this was keeping me from passing gas as regularly/easily as usual. I think I had been clenching because there was a tiny bit of fluid in my new urethra, and I had been subconsciously trying to keep it in. So overnight, I'd slept with those muscle more relaxed.

It did seem like it maybe helped, because I woke up and was immediately ready to poop, which in regular times is very normal for me but hadn't happened much since surgery. I tried to again relax everything on the toilet, and after starting to poop, was very surprised to also hear a tinkling sound - I had accidentally started peeing through my new urethra! I stopped immediately after realizing, maybe a couple seconds in. When I got up, I tried to use the hand mirror to see where it had come from, since I couldn't feel/see at the time. It was hard to say for sure, but it seemed from the areas of wetness like it had all come from the tip of my penis and then just run down the front of my scrotum, but again - hard to tell for sure. At the very least, I was happy to know that I didn't have a stricture! It was tinged lightly red - I think mostly urine with a little bit of blood mixed in. When Ursula called later in the day to confirm my upcoming post-op appointment, I mentioned it to her, and she said it happens and is okay and to just try not to strain on the toilet (although I think going far in the other direction was really what caused it).

This seemed to kind of unblock something in my urethra, though, because that evening, I had a good couple of hours of feeling like there was constantly a little fluid coming out of the tip of my penis, and the gauze in that area caught some light red fluid (again, seemed like urine w/ a little bit of blood in the mix). It was honestly pretty unpleasant, because it burned a bit and I felt stressed that I was going to fully pee my pants through the new urethra if I relaxed those muscles again, but clenching them made it feel like a bladder spasm. Ultimately I did try to relax, and in reality, it wasn't a whole lot that came out over those couple of hours - maybe an American quarter size area on the gauze. I did have to change the gauze there more frequently to keep up, and one time, I actually found a standalone/disconnected stitch knot sitting on the front of my scrotum right below the urethra opening in some gathered fluid, so I'm _pretty_ sure that stitch actually came from inside my urethra (and perhaps was part of why it felt stingy/burning coming out).

After those couple of hours, it seemed to clear up, and everything felt back to how it was before.

## Day 15

This day, the same feeling/leakage started again, but more intensely and more frequently. A lot of this day I was fighting bladder spasms. It increased over the day, and by 5:30pm it was bad enough that I called the clinic line, but I had just missed Ursula. It kept getting worse, and by the evening, it was really quite painful. I reread the post-op instruction sheet, and realized I probably had a UTI - increased bladder spasms, burning (which I felt constantly in my urethra), and cloudy urine (I hadn't really been paying attention, but once I did, it was definitely very cloudy). It was way after the clinic hours, but I felt pretty confident in that read of the situation and started the antibiotic that night. I had trouble sleeping for a while because the pain was so bad, but eventually the combo of Tylenol + bladder spasm med + a heating pad on my stomach worked.

## Day 16

When I woke up, I felt much better. Ursula called me back first thing, and she confirmed that she would have told me to start taking the antibiotics too, and I should continue doing so and to drink a lot of water. The cloudiness in my urine eased up by midday, and I went to my post-op appointment. Dr. Chen said my wound separation areas were healing nicely. He said it was still earlier than he'd like me to start peeing, but that I could try to pee on Wednesday the following week, and if it seemed like there were no fistulas, that they'd pull my catheter at the post-op appointment the following day.

When I got back, I started having more burning/bladder pain and my urine started getting cloudy again. I did the same things as the night before - Tylenol, bladder spasm med, and heating pad. Luckily the pain this evening wasn't anywhere near as bad as the night before.

## Day 17

Basically the same as the day before... Cloudy urine, resolved a couple hours after taking the morning round of antibiotics, but cloudy again and low-level pain again by around 6pm. I debated calling Ursula, but from what I could find online, it sounded like it could take 3-7 days for a UTI to clear completely, so I figured I could wait through the weekend and get in touch if it wasn't getting significantly better by then. The pain was manageable and still less than that first night when I started the antibiotic. I also figured that since my urine would clear after the morning dose, the UTI was responding to it - it was just putting up a fight.

Wound separation continued to close pretty quickly, which was a nice mood boost amidst all the urethra/bladder pain from the UTI. Changing the gauze frequently really did seem to help a lot. It was also nice to continue to see less and less fluid on the gauze each time.

At this point, I definitely started counting down the days until the pee trial and when I would (hopefully) get my catheter pulled - the UTI pain/spasms made me feel especially fed up with it.
