---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 24-30 - relearning how to pee"
---

## Days 24-30

These all kind of blurred together. I don't know if it was just a mood boost from having gotten the catheter out (or increased confidence since I no longer worried about tugging on the tube or hitting the spot where it entered my bladder), but I did feel a big boost in mobility right after the catheter came out. I was still not sitting (by choice - I just wanted the remaining perineum wound separation to finish healing as quickly and smoothly as possible, and I honestly didn't mind eating standing up and otherwise lounging mostly on our couch with the wedge pillow), but getting in and out of bed/off and on the couch, cuddling my partner, putting on bottoms, etc. all felt quite a bit freer.

The main stand-out from these days, though, was realizing that I fundamentally needed to fully relearn how to pee. I wasn't doing potty training in the sense that I already knew how to hold it, how to feel when I needed to go, etc etc, but the actual mechanics were totally brand new. I don't think I've really seen this talked about much, and it wasn't something I even thought to mentally prepare for, so it honestly really took me by surprise. I was so eager to have UL done and try peeing and get my catheter out that I never considered what would happen after, but it was a challenge! It felt so odd to have to relearn that basic skill. I also was trying not to sit to pee as much as possible because when I did one time early on, it led to my wound separation bleeding a little more than it had been otherwise, and I was being really anal (ok, pun intended) about not doing anything to exacerbate it even the tiniest amount.

So I spent a lot of days experimenting with my hand mirror propped on the side of tub, watching myself pull back the surrounding tissue in different ways and adjust my stream while peeing into a big glass measuring cup. I could have peed directly into the tub, but it splattered a ton and I had to rinse both the tub and my lower legs/feet whenever I did that, so the measuring cup worked better. It also contained the incidental side-streams that happened periodically, which would otherwise sometimes hit my inner thigh. I would do the tub pees with no measuring cup when showering though, since I'd be cleaning up anyway and it was good practice for improving my aim. I also watched a few videos about pee aim and pee splatter off different surfaces. It turns out aiming for the back porcelain actually splatters more micro-droplets than just hitting the water! The water makes more big visible droplets, but they're large enough that they mostly stay within the toilet bowl. FYI. 😅 This was a funny bonding topic with my dad, and he told me to keep the pee splatter research from my mom, who was already on his case about getting pee outside the toilet sometimes (lol). I could also tell that stage 2, as I already expected, would make a big difference for me. Without it, I had to push back on the upper m*jora to get them out of the way. I also hadn't tried yet but was quite sure everything wasn't positioned high enough to pee at a urinal without dropping my pants. I did have a fun time peeing in a single-stall bathroom for the first time out in public, though - it was completely out of toilet paper (and only a hand dryer, no paper towels), and I was able to stand and do the behind-the-scrotum push to get everything out, no paper needed.

Ultimately, I think I'll be continuing to refine and re-learn for the coming months, because things are still healing, and I'm sure my stream will change slightly as I do. It's also just a big adjustment! Honestly the biggest thing is just mentally adjusting, having not done any upfront work to mentally prepare for how much I'd have to re-learn and how things would be so fundamentally different. In hindsight, it's obvious, but I was just so focused on other things going into surgery (e.g. mentally preparing for things to not look very different after stage 1, the dysphoria alleviation of having v-nectomy, etc), that I never thought about it much, and it snuck up on me.
