---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 8 & 9 - still wound separation + second post-op"
---

## Day 8

Basically the same but a little worse. In the morning, the wounds looked gooey and oozey, and it looked like it was both farther down the perineum and creeping up into the junction with my scrotum and maybe even along the horizontal bottom incision of my scrotum. There was also a little oozing & opening on the vertical incision on the front of my scrotum, and I also discovered that there was a small spot on the left side of my scrotum where it joined the rest of my skin that had opened up, and that one was actually the deepest (despite being small) and most painful (I'd be feeling some pain there the day before and was confused why it seemed to be coming from somewhere other than the perineum area, but figured the whole area was not well-mapped in my head yet, and had had similar things in the days before, e.g. bumping the catheter tube would make it feel like the tip of my penis hurt, even though it wasn't connected at all). Once again showered and got everything clean. This time before using the fan, I used gauze to very gently dab and get any remaining "goop" (it's gross, but that's honestly how I'd describe it) out from the incisions, which I assume was dead skin cells at the surface. This helped a lot. I also had my partner take a couple pictures and sent them to Ursula. She called me back immediately and said yes, I had irritation/wound along the perineum suture line and on my scrotum. She reiterated that the best thing to do is just keep everything as dry and clean as possible, and they'll heal in/over with time. I asked about how "right up in there" the gauze should be, and she said you want to do your best to keep it dry but not stretch or put too much pressure on the wound, so I could bunch it up if that helped. Basically it was about finding the right balance between not having to pull my legs apart too much to get it up there but also pushing hard enough to get it in between my butt cheeks, essentially. I realized that before I hadn't been getting the gauze up against the wound area enough, so the light draining/weeping wasn't getting absorbed and was just staying there sandwiched between my butt cheeks, irritating the area further. This change in technique of getting the gauze higher up there seemed to help a lot. I changed the gauze every few hours this day, and it only had minimal drainage (and less fresh red, much more pale yellow/pink). It also just felt better, having the gauze directly against it for support.

One of my friends came over this evening and brought dinner, which was a nice change of pace. I definitely was still tiring more easily/quickly at this stage, but we were having so much fun that I made it about 2.5 hours of socializing, and it helped me feel a little closer to normal.

## Day 9

Kind of the same as the day before - woke up with oozy/gooey wounds, got into the shower to clean them thoroughly, and felt much better after. I continued to refine my cleaning technique and settled on using my peri bottle filled with soapy water to first soak some gauze, using that wet soapy gauze to super gently dab the wound areas to get any remnant ooze/goo off, then using the peri bottle directly all over the area to suds, then using it again with plain water to rinse. This seemed to get things the cleanest with minimal disturbance to the wound beds. Again, packing the gauze up there more directly/tightly for support felt really good.

Had my second post-op appointment. Dr. Chen confirmed all the areas of wound separation I'd found. He said the front of the perineum one and the areas on/around my scrotum should heal in with time. The back of the perineum one was deeper, and he said would also heal with time but could potentially heal with a divot there, which can be an issue for hygiene, so depending how it heals, we may want to talk about ways to fix that during stage 2 (I assume he would migrate some tissue there to fill in the divot somehow, but we didn't actually get into it, that's just my guess). He said, basically, just stay the course, keep trying to keep things as clean and dry as possible, and we'll see how things are the following week. He also recommended I take Miralax (I'd only been taking a stool softener, but was still not as regular as usual), and said I could take it "off label", i.e. 2-3 times per day instead of once, if needed.

Still a lot of swelling, but it had definitely eased up a little bit (things weren't quite as puffy), and the purple coloring was almost entirely gone.

Amazingly, moving around/walking become less uncomfortable on the areas of wound separation (I could no longer feel them at all, whereas before they were a tad uncomfortable and I was waddling more) this afternoon/evening - I think perhaps because I'd been more consistent at cleaning them and keeping gauze right against them, they weren't as oozy or irritated.
