---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 4-7"
---

## Day 4-6

All pretty much the same. Showering every other day, changing the gauze about 2x per day with barely anything on it. This time period was when standing stopped being uncomfortable though (after day 3), and that was nice. I started eating standing up instead of barely propped up on the couch (that made eating & drinking hard to do without spilling on myself and also did not help with good digestion, so I was happy to leave it behind). I think day 6 was the last time I really took any pain meds (Tylenol).

## Day 7

Things took a bit of a turn for the worse on this day. Woke up and felt like I needed to poop immediately. Got to the toilet, same as before, lowered slowly, etc. Sat for a minute or so with no luck, and got up to re-dress. I then noticed there was bright red blood in the toilet. Quickly grabbed the hand mirror and confirmed there was blood dripping from about an inch of my perineum/v-nectomy site. Dabbed with gauze, there was a lot of clotting on there also, but it was definitely not just drainage because the color was bright red. It did stop very quickly, but I decided to hop in the shower to get it cleaned up properly using my peri bottle.

After the shower, I wanted to make sure things dried out completely because I've had issues in the past with skin maceration due to weeping/wet wounds, and this one seemed to be gently oozing fresh blood + drainage, so I had my partner set up a fan on a box at the end of my bed, and laid with my legs slightly apart to get the breeze all over the area. This seemed to help a lot, and it dried quickly. Re-dressed and tried to be extra gentle the rest of the day.

From this day on, especially because of the wound separation, I showered every day, and that seemed to help the wounds heal more quickly and just made me feel better / not wallow.

I also started to have what I assume are little "nerve zaps" (similar to what I experienced with top surgery), where there'd be a sudden ZING! of pain but then it would be gone immediately. This happened even when I was literally immobile, so I assume it was just nerves reconnecting or something like that.
