---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Day 23 - catheter removal and last post-op"
---

## Day 23

Catheter removal day! And last post-op appointment. I brought a list of questions to this one since I knew I wouldn't otherwise be seeing/talking with Dr. Chen for a while.

He looked at my junk, and said I was still healing up really well. I asked him specifically to check the wound separation in the back, and he said it was shallow and also healing nicely. I checked whether it was still possible I'd heal with a divot there, and he said it was unlikely given how shallow it was already, so yay! I want to chalk this up to 1) cleaning it daily and air drying thoroughly afterward, 2) changing gauze in the area frequently (every few hours) so it would stay as dry and clean as possible between full cleanings, and 3) not sitting at all (I literally never sat upright except on the toilet to poop) and being very careful not to put any strain on that area at all so it wouldn't stretch the wound. However, everyone heals differently, so I also don't want to say that anyone who doesn't have this type of healing or has a divot from wound separation is at fault - it's also just our bodies doing whatever they're gonna do, and there's only so much we can control. I just liked to do that routine of cleaning and gauze changes and chose not to sit because I needed to feel like I had SOME control over this otherwise stressful and anxious process.

Getting the catheter out was such a strange experience! It didn't hurt at all, but it was just not a feeling I'd otherwise felt, ever. Someone likened yanking on the catheter to the feeling of hitting your funny bone, and I think that was true here too, just in an extended way since it took a few seconds to come out all the way. It was simpler than I thought too. Dr. Chen connected a syringe to the catheter port and emptied the balloon inside by filling the syringe - I thought there was air inside, but it was actually water. Then he got ready with a pile of gauze and pulled slowly. It took a couple of seconds for the length of the tube to exit, and then a bit of pee squirted out (I had peed right beforehand, including emptying my catheter at the end to make sure I got everything out, but in the 10min or so since clearly my body had made more). And that was it! He put the thick pile of gauze over the entrance and had me pull my underwear over it to hold it in place.

It was nice but also kind of weird and disorienting to have out! With it in, I had actually peed outside a couple of times as needed while on a walk, and it was also extremely easy to pee in public restrooms. With it out, I didn't have that ease, and peeing through my penis was so brand new to me that it felt a bit nerve-wracking to not have another back-up option (especially with still having some gauze in my underwear, which I had to take out and re-place for each pee through my penis so it wouldn't get urine on it). I could tell I definitely had a lot of adjusting to do in the coming days to relearn how to pee through this new setup. The lack of bladder spasms was definitely nice, though.

Other things I asked Dr. Chen at this last appointment:
- How much tissue would he likely be able to excise in stage 2 (I have a very fatty mons and prominent upper m*jora)? He showed me on my own mons and also showed me a couple photos on his phone of a recent stage 2 he'd done on someone, describing how mine would remove a bit more tissue than this person had taken out since mine was larger).
- Did he recommend pumping to prevent retraction, which I'd seen other people mention? He said no - with pumping, if you do it, you have to keep doing it. I asked if he was worried about retraction without it, and he said no.
- Could I start side sleeping with a pillow in between my legs now, even though it still squashes my scrotum a tiny bit? He said yeah, at this stage with the amount of healing that had already taken place, it was fine.
- Is there any point at which I should start snipping loose stitches or just let them fall out completely on their own? He said I could definitely start snipping them, starting today, but to only do ones that were really dangly so I wouldn't risk nicking the skin.

And that was that! We said our goodbyes and would have a longer-term post-op appointment in a couple months (three months post-op).
