---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 1-3 - swelling, chilling, seeing photos, and first post-op"
---

## Day 1

Took one more Tramadol this morning when I woke up (so two total). Way less foggy today compared to the anesthesia haze of the day before, but still a bit foggy. Finally relaxed enough to get the watery poop out that evening, but it wasn't a ton. Still needed my partner's help in and out of bed/the couch (they would help push my back + pull me up by my hand/arm and also lift the catheter bag for me). Standing/walking didn't feel great - I could feel pressure all over the surgery area. It wasn't terribly painful, but it was enough that I didn't want to stand around at all if possible. I think the surgery center and Ursula both called this day to check on me as well, which was nice for any questions I hadn't thought of previously.

Also got my first good look at things - everything was suuuuuper swollen. My upper m*jora were dark purple, nearing eggplant shade, and super puffy, basically obscuring my whole penis.

Overall not a very eventful day - it was really just lying on the couch slightly propped up the whole time, aside from brief interludes to the bathroom to empty the cath bag. Stopped the Tramadol after that second pill in the morning, and was feeling fine on my Tylenol-only schedule from then on. My partner was really helpful in managing the Tylenol schedule so that I would always take it right on time, rather than waiting until pain emerged to take it.

## Day 2

Dr. Chen sent over my before and after photos this morning, which was exciting to see. It was especially nice to see how everything looked post-op before any of the major swelling took over, so I knew what I could hopefully look forward to in a month or two's time once the majority of the swelling eased up. I'm grateful that I had really mentally prepared for things to not look that different with stage one, or I think I would have felt really deflated - I literally could only see the very tip of my penis because of how much everything around it was swollen. I also still couldn't see it looking down, due to my prominent mons, which I had known wouldn't change in this stage. So the photos helped a lot there (I could see what my penis would look like once it could emerge from the surrounding swelling), and I also intentionally focused on what _was_ different in really exciting ways... Having the v-nectomy already felt huge - knowing I didn't have an opening there anymore felt like such a huge relief. Having a scrotum that I could touch and cup in my hand, however swollen and delicate and a little bloody, felt amazing. Overall, just the knowledge that things had transformed from being more "internal" to being entirely "external" felt like a huge weight off that I'd been reluctant to even consciously acknowledge I'd been carrying because it felt like if I did, it would overwhelm me and I'd never be able to emerge from it. I already felt so much more embodied at this point, despite the medicalization of everything with the catheter tube, gauze, stitches, etc., and that felt amazing.

Other than the big emotional stuff above, this day started off basically the same as yesterday, except walking was a little easier and I continued to feel less foggy as the anesthesia and Tramadol worked their way out of my system, but that all changed after my first post-op appointment in the afternoon. Ursula swapped out the bag for the flip-flow valve, and it was INSTANT relief. The bag's jostling had really been wearing on me. I also had seen other people mention that keeping their bladder full helped alleviate some of the discomfort from the balloon of the catheter by keeping it from touching the walls of the bladder too much, and this wasn't really possible with the bag, because it would just drain out immediately. With the flip-flow valve, I could drink and retain the liquid in my bladder to help "pad" the balloon. The ride back home with it on was definitely more comfortable than the one there with the bag (especially going over bumps). I also was able to get up by myself from then on, by kind of crab shimmying to the edge of the bed or couch and then turning over slightly and pushing with my arms behind me while rotating slightly on my butt.

Also took my first shower this evening, which was a little stressful to navigate but felt good.

## Day 3

This felt like a turning point for me - first night's sleep without the bag, first day of being able to get up myself and walk more comfortably (in general + without the bag jostling with each step). I made breakfast for my partner and me this morning, and that felt like a nice little taste of my usual routine. Also had my first real poop (not the watery remnants from the magnesium citrate), and that was pretty fine. A little blood from the very end of my perineum/v-nectomy sutures near the anus, but nothing alarming and stopped pretty much instantly.
