---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 18-22 - UTI not fully resolving? + PEEING!"
---

## Day 18-19

Urine followed the same pattern - cloudy in the morning, clearer after the morning Bactrim, then cloudy again by dinnertime. On day 19, I had more bladder pain spasms at night again, and decided I needed to call Ursula the following day (Monday).

## Day 20

Called Ursula and gave her the updates. She said I likely needed to switch antibiotics and that I should do a urine analysis at a lab so they could pick the right antibiotic to target whatever specific thing I had brewing in there, but in the meantime she was switching me to another common one for UTIs that would target different things. Called up my good friend nearby and he said he'd able to drive me, so I made an appointment at a Quest lab for that afternoon, and printed out the order form Ursula emailed to me to bring to the lab.

A mild silver lining of this was that the lab with the most appointments was in Chinatown, so we got some good food and boba afterward (which I had been really missing!).

My partner picked up the new antibiotic for me, and I started it that evening. Still a little more bladder spasms than I'd been having otherwise, but otherwise doing fine.

## Day 21

Still no results from the lab today, but the bladder spasms/twinges seemed to lessen. Ursula confirmed I could move forward with the pee trial the next morning even if my urine was still cloudy.

## Day 22

Ursula called me this morning with the lab results. My urine analysis was clear, but my urine culture (I honestly don't know the difference) showed a bacteria that was sensitive to the new antibiotic I'd already switched to, so she said it made sense I was seeing improvements with it and told me to finish out the full course (I needed be taking it for tomorrow to get my catheter removed anyway, assuming that was happening).

Pee day! I didn't want to try first thing because I was not fully awake yet but needed to pee badly, so I knew I wouldn't be able to pay attention well (and didn't want to risk slipping in the shower while trying to maneuver around with the hand mirror to see things clearly and being half asleep). Instead I drank a ton of water throughout the morning, and finally was ready to make an attempt an hour or two later.

I got into the shower with my hand mirror, and just relaxed. I had definitely hydrated thoroughly, and I had a really strong and SINGLE (!) stream coming from the tip of my penis - woohoo! I moved the mirror around while continuing to verify there wasn't even a drip coming from anywhere else. Called Ursula and left a message with the good news.

She called me back quickly and asked if I'd tried emptying my catheter afterward, which I didn't know I was supposed to do. So I did it the next time, and it turned out I had only peed half of my bladder's contents. She said this was a lot leftover, and Dr. Chen wouldn't want to take the catheter out until I got that down. I asked what percentage we were targeting, and she said something like 20% remaining would be okay. We agreed I'd try again the next couple of times and update her that afternoon.

The next two times were much better - something like 25% and then only 15%. I also think this honestly has to do with how full my bladder is. I think the fuller it is, the less my slightly irritated & weakened (from the catheter) bladder is able to sustain a push to empty it entirely. I also found that waiting a few minutes seemed to give it a quick rest and I was able to do a whole other big pee again, just 3-4 minutes later, so that's something to experiment with if you're having trouble with residual urine.
