---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 31 and beyond - last update for now"
---

## Days 31+

I think this will probably be my last update for a while. Unless something new comes up, I probably won't write again until stage 2 is on the imminent horizon, because there's just not a lot changing anymore.

Things that have happened in the last couple weeks since I wrote last:
* Tried masturbating - it was probably a little early; I was supposed to wait until six weeks out, but I tried it at five. Luckily things went ok - in fact, it actually helped a lot (although I still wouldn't encourage it). I still had some really tight stitches on the underside of my penis, which were quite uncomfortable. It made it basically impossible to lift it up at ALL to clean underneath, and anytime I even touched that area lightly, it was very unpleasant (a sort of prickly pain) because the ends of the stitches would poke into the skin, and it's obviously a very sensitive place. When I became erect while masturbating, the increase in length/girth pulled at these stitches and essentially popped them free. This obviously would have been a really bad thing earlier on, but at five weeks out, the underside was already completely closed, so it was fine, and I was honestly glad it happened because it made things a lot more comfortable. My penis was immediately a lot more comfortable to handle while cleaning and peeing, and it being a lot freer to manipulate meant I could experiment a little more with different peeing techniques (although I was and am still reluctant to tug on things too much, since I still have some small areas of wound separation that are still healing on my perineum).
* Finally started sitting somewhat regularly. Before this, I was avoiding sitting pretty much entirely, to try to avoid putting any unnecessary pressure/tension on the wound separation. By this point, though, it was just too impractical to continue, and the separation had gotten to a place where it was small enough that I decided it was worth trying. I still don't sit most of the day while working (I have a sit/stand desk for work, and just use it in the standing position), but I do sit in a squishy arm chair to eat, and I'll sit on the couch to play video games. When I am sitting, it's much more comfortable A) on a softer surface, like a couch or armchair, B) with one leg folded under me to keep the pressure on one side more than the other, and C) still leaned back a little bit rather than fully upright.
* Tried MediHoney on my wound separation. This was not a good idea. I was worried things down there were starting to dry out, because I had VERY little drainage on the gauze (like, the size of a dime, after wearing the same single square of gauze for 5+ hours). But the honey is so sticky that it stuck in all my re-growing butt hairs (hooray for this part of testosterone - JK), and so when I would change the gauze out, it would stick to the hairs and pull at the skin, the exact opposite of what you want for wound separation. Also, the second time I tried to apply the honey directly, I'm pretty sure my finger pushed in farther than it should have and maybe upset the wound a little, even though I was trying really hard to be gentle. All in all, I personally think it's not worth the risks and have gone back to just changing dry gauze in the area a few times per day. My skin also has a strong tendency towards maceration, so I worry that too much moisture is far worse than being a bit dry. It seems to still be healing up well, just slowly, but that's to be expected.
* Walking improved a lot. I can now walk with a nearly normal gate (I'm still just a little tighter in the hips to prevent things from pulling too much), and at a pretty normal speed (not my speed walk, but I usually keep up with other people now without having to ask them to slow down like I did before). I know this will just keep getting better, and I'm nearly to normal.
* Movement in general is just way easier. I can crouch, kneel, easily get into a position to lay down on the floor, bend over to pick things up, etc.
* Got a small children's potty training urinal for my home bathroom. With COVID and working from home, I'm out in public so little that I very rarely have any chance to try peeing at a public bathroom, and I wanted to be able to practice with a urinal-ish set up at home a bunch first, before attempting it in public. I was happily surprised to find that I could pee down the leg of my running shorts + boxer briefs, if I pushed them back between my legs enough from the front - a bit finnicky as a setup, but definitely doable. I pretty much never wear pants these days, so I actually haven't tried in those yet, but my guess is that they'll be trickier since I can't go down the leg hole. We'll see though! It's been fun to experiment and I'm still learning. I just hang the kid's urinal from our shower head and practice when I'm already about to shower.

All in all, things are continuing to heal well and I'm just waiting for this last bit of wound separation to close before I feel like everything can be totally back to normal. I've heard sitting can remain a bit uncomfortable for a couple of months, but that's fine with me - I just don't want to worsen the wound separation. Once that's closed, I'll put up with some discomfort / continue to adapt a little bit with a cushion or certain positions.

I'm also really eager for stage 2, which is in about seven months now. It feels far away and soon at the same time. I'm so grateful to have had this surgery, and am already so much more comfortable with the ways things are now than how they used to be, but I also definitely need the mons resection and upper fold reduction to get things in a position and structure that doesn't cause me dysphoria still. I'm also SO stoked to have implants and have a "full package", per my own definition for myself (I know not everyone wants these and it's very much still a scrotum without them, but they feel very necessary and exciting for me).

In the nearer term, I'm excited for maybe a month or two from now, when everything feels truly healed externally, and I can spend more time getting to know this part of my body that's totally new to me. It's a weird trajectory of healing and processing, because the first part is SO intense, and then this long tail of healing slowly tapers off for such a long time. I look forward to just touching and exploring more hopefully soon-ish.
