---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 10-13"
---

## Day 10

Chill day. Had come to emotionally accept the wound separation more, so was less stressed about that and no longer anxiously checking it every few hours. I had gotten some good advice from other folks who had wound separation the night before on the bottom surgery Discord server. They reiterated the same wound care info from Dr Chen (if wet, keep dry and use just plain gauze; if wet, use gauze with ointment - medihoney, aquaphor, etc.), but what was most helpful for me was the emotional advice. They talked about not checking the healing progress too often (once every day or two is all you really need), taking photos so you can really see the progress over the weeks, and just accepting this as part of your own journey and not obsessing about whether you could have prevented it or what caused it. I definitely took these things to heart, and it made me feel a lot better and be able to lean in to resting and doing fun recovery things moving forward. I had a fun time with a friend, who brought Cubano sandwiches for us to eat together, and we played some cards. I also used a little of my weed tincture, and watched a movie I'd been wanting to see for a while. All in all a good day, and the lack of stressing and checking on my wounds too often definitely made things better. They also just physically felt better, now that I was into a routine of changing my gauze frequently enough but also not poking at them too often anymore.

## Days 11-13

All pretty much the same as above. Having a generally chill and comfortable time, basically no pain at all except for maybe 2-3 "nerve zaps" per day, if that. Enjoyed the routine of waking up each morning, cleaning my wounds / that whole area with my peri bottle in the shower, drying in front of the fan, and then redressing them. Carrying out that routine helped me feel like I had something to do / some control over the wounds healing, which helped a lot. I continued to be too afraid to sit down, lest I pull at the areas of separation that were trying to heal, but standing was definitely a lot more comfortable, so I started socializing and spending time standing more (maybe 1-2 hours a day) at this point.

I was also happy to see that the fluid caught by my gauze over the wound separation areas seemed to lighten and lessen slightly as the days went on. That was another nice little way to really feel like healing was happening, even if it was mostly invisible to me.
