---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Day 0, surgery day!"
---

### Pre-Surgery

Woke up at 5am. Got dressed, did a quick toothbrush, and then headed out. Got to the surgery center right at 6am, which was my scheduled arrival time. I rung the doorbell on the side, and one of the PACU nurses came out to meet me. She did a quick COVID screening (symptoms, exposure, travel, etc questions and temperature check) and then took me inside. I signed a bunch of paperwork with the person at the front desk, and they copied my insurance card and ID. I also paid the surgery center fee (my co-pay after insurance was $1600) - this was just the surgery center's portion, not Dr Chen's.

Then sat for only a couple more minutes, and the same PACU nurse came out again to take me back. She showed me to the bathroom and had me change into a gown that ties in the back and put on a hairnet and hospital socks. I left my bag (Kindle in case I needed to wait, chapstick, keys, etc) in the locker with my clothes, but she told me I could take my phone with me to entertain myself while waiting.

I ended up not having any time on the phone anyway! The next hour was lots of visits and setup. They put in my IV, had me take tylenol by mouth (that sip of water felt great, since I hadn't been able to drink since the night before!), gave me a heparin injection (sub-q in the stomach, just like I do my T shots), and asked me the usual medical questions. The OR nurse who'd be in there with me came and talked with me a bunch too. The anesthesiologist also came and asked me the usual questions. She was a little concerned because my white blood cell count was like .2 over the normal range, but they asked Dr Chen about it and he said as long as I don't have any symptoms of anything, it should be fine. Dr Chen came to visit and asked if I had any questions. So many people who go to him mention this, but I'll say it too - his bedside manner is truly the best. He's so reassuring and warm - part of this is just that he's a really friendly guy, but also he's very upfront and realistic about things. He also gave me a little advice for immediately post-op, i.e. take small steps for at least the first few days, not my normal stride; wiggle my toes when resting in the same position for long periods of time to help with blood flow in my legs; etc.

The OR nurse came to get me right around 7am (the scheduled surgery time), and we walked down the hall to the OR together, with her carrying my IV setup. This would have thrown me for a loop (walking there instead of being wheeled) if I hadn't had the exact same experience during top surgery (I was actually in the exact same prep/recovery bed this time as for top surgery).

### Post-Surgery

I must have gotten back to the recovery room around noon (which makes sense - Dr Chen had told me it would be about five hours long), because that's when my partner got the call from them that I'd be ready for pickup in an hour. I apparently came to and immediately said "OXYCODONE!!", so I'm guessing I was in pain, but I truly don't remember this at all. I also don't remember having any pain, which is pretty amazing. I drifted in and out a few times. Eventually they said I should try to get into the wheelchair to go out to the car. I was so out of it, I honestly have no idea how I got from the bed into the chair. I also have no memory of putting on my clothes, but I'm assuming they did it for me / I had a lot of help. The only things I really remember are the moment I was sitting into the wheelchair, trying really hard to sit slowly and gently, and the challenges of getting into the passenger seat in the car (it was hard to duck my head down far enough while also not plopping onto my incisions). I put the seat way back, and the 30-ish minute drive felt like 5 minutes.

I remember walking in from the car, taking miniscule steps and saying out loud "I hope we don't run into any of our neighbors with my catheter bag out". We were home probably around 2pm, and I immediately got horizontal on the couch and took a long nap with a heating pad on my stomach (not necessary for pain, it was just really cozy - my partner was next to me the whole time, or I otherwise wouldn't recommend falling asleep with a heating pad).

My left hand was half numb (thumb, index, and middle finger + part of my wrist on that side), and I assumed it was probably from how they strap your arms and legs down during the procedure (other people mentioned being really sore from this, but I wasn't). My partner called the surgery center to ask about it, and they said it should go away in the next day or two (which it did). So yeah, don't panic if this happens to you - the strap probably was just right on a nerve, and it needed a little time to come back online.

I tried to poop this first evening, because I could feel the remaining effects of the magnesium citrate still in there, but no luck. Getting onto the toilet wasn't too bad, I just took it very slowly and had some support from my partner and our counter top. But I think I was too nervous to actually relax and let the remaining liquid-y poop out.

That evening overall was really not bad - just very foggy and a little challenging. Getting up and down required help from my partner to push/pull me up. Still very small steps. I was on round-the-clock Tylenol as Dr Chen recommended, and took one Tramadol that night to make sure I'd sleep as comfortably as possible. I wasn't in much pain at all. The main annoying thing was navigating getting up and down from the couch to empty the catheter bag. Any jostling of it made my bladder mad - no huge spasms, but I could feel it move inside my bladder, and it would have like a mini-spasm that passed after a second.
Dr Chen also called around 8pm to see how I was doing.
