---
layout: post
title: "Stage 1: Days 14-16"
---

## Day 14

The night before, I had been trying to relax all the muscles in my pelvic region more, because I realized I had been kind of clenching them all the time, and it seemed like this was keeping me from passing gas as regularly/easily as usual. I think I had been clenching because there was a tiny bit of fluid in my new urethra, and I had been subconsciously trying to keep it in. So overnight, I'd slept with those muscle more relaxed.

It did seem like it maybe helped, because I woke up and was immediately ready to poop, which in regular times is very normal for me but hadn't happened much since surgery. I tried to again relax everything on the toilet, and after starting to poop, was very surprised to also hear a tinkling sound - I had accidentally started peeing through my new urethra! I stopped immediately after realizing, maybe a couple seconds in. When I got up, I tried to use the hand mirror to see where it had come from, since I couldn't feel/see at the time. It was hard to say for sure, but it seemed from the areas of wetness like it had all come from the tip of my penis and then just run down the front of my scrotum, but again - hard to tell for sure. At the very least, I was happy to know that I didn't have a stricture! It was tinged lightly red - I think mostly urine with a little bit of blood mixed in. When Ursula called later in the day to confirm my upcoming post-op appointment, I mentioned it to her, and she said it happens and is okay and to just try not to strain on the toilet (although I think going far in the other direction was really what caused it).

This seemed to kind of unblock something in my urethra, though, because that evening, I had a good couple of hours of feeling like there was constantly a little fluid coming out of the tip of my penis, and the gauze in that area caught some light red fluid (again, seemed like urine w/ a little bit of blood in the mix). It was honestly pretty unpleasant, because it burned a bit and I felt stressed that I was going to fully pee my pants through the new urethra if I relaxed those muscles again, but clenching them made it feel like a bladder spasm. Ultimately I did try to relax, and in reality, it wasn't a whole lot that came out over those couple of hours - maybe an American quarter size area on the gauze. I did have to change the gauze there more frequently to keep up, and one time, I actually found a standalone/disconnected stitch knot sitting on the front of my scrotum right below the urethra opening in some gathered fluid, so I'm _pretty_ sure that stitch actually came from inside my urethra (and perhaps was part of why it felt stingy/burning coming out).

After those couple of hours, it cleared up, and everything felt back to how it was before. If anything, I was kind of glad it happened because it felt like I'd cleared a blockage and this was another checkpoint in the healing journey.
